how does animal agriculture help the
species quiet
species how does animal agriculture help
the species how does animal agriculture
help the species how does animal
agriculture help the species how does
animal agriculture help the species hmm
how does animal agriculture help the
species I mean it helped us by
increasing our ability to trade anything
that contributes well okay well it
doesn't do that anymore doesn't do that
anymore because it prevents us from from
getting into Wars doing cows prevents us
from getting into Wars trading is
something that definitely ass wages war
when you're sharing resources because
certain areas are far right for certain
you're telling me you eat cows to
prevent Wars you eat cows from China to
prevent it worse does animal agriculture
prevent Wars yes or no does animal
agriculture prevent Wars yes or no does
animal agriculture prevent Wars yes or
no does animal agriculture prevent Wars
yes or no
that's your question some of you may
have just seen a video put up by vegan
gains I don't know if it really can be
described as a debate but that shows you
just what an awful person
Amy Kay is vegan gains confronted and
tried to deal with in a systematic way
questions of whether or not vegan diet
would be better for ecology human health
and ethics terms the impact and animals
foundational issues of veganism and for
over an hour you just got to see what an
awful excuse for human being Amy Kay is
now some of you might be really
surprised to hear I already did this I
already had a debate with this same
woman and just like the video from vegan
gains it would be really hard to even
describe that as a debate how does how
does animal agriculture benefit humanity
how does animal agriculture benefit
humanity how does animal agriculture
benefit humanity how does animal
agriculture benefit humanity how does
animal agriculture benefit humanity how
does animal agriculture benefit humanity
how does animal agriculture benefit
humanity how does animal agriculture
benefit humanity how does animal
agriculture benefit humanity you can't
use food supply because we've already
debunked that so how does animal
agriculture benefit humanity how does
your conduct rate how does animal
agriculture benefit humanity unlike
Richard my conversation with her was
much more devastating it was really
intended to reduce her to tears and it
pretty much worked that was on live a
boys chat on discord and she was not
alone she had like five friends backing
her up there were maybe only three other
people really actively talking but there
were these other dudes there and I was
taking them on as a group and one of the
reasons why I was frankly so mean and so
devastating was that when I came into
the room they were not saying at all
what
ami K says I think insincerely in this
video they had any kind of positive
reason to be engaged with vegans okay so
you agree you agree that that veganism
is a superior moral position so you
agree that veganism is a superior moral
position they were really openly
discussing the extent to which they were
trying to humiliate and sabotage the
vegan movement with what they were doing
on YouTube and on other social media
platforms so you know there's obviously
a level in which I just don't take
kindly that you guys hear me on this
channel really positively saying all the
time look in the mirror ask yourself
what kind of person do you really want
to be what kind of person do you aspire
to be I very often use rhetoric like
look the ultimate product of the vegan
movement isn't a dairy for a chocolate
bar in a package
it isn't soy milk it isn't a you know
veggie burger it isn't one thing or
another the product is you like what
we're questioning here ultimately is
what kind of man do I want to be what
kind of woman do I be what kind of
person do I want to be and that kind of
positive aspiration is thing you have to
kind of harness or your type of people's
motivation to be to be really committed
to veganism rather than just being some
kind of you know reduce it Arian or
somebody who says they kind of sort of
tried to do the right thing but who
aren't really committed to never doing
the wrong thing so that that positive
aspirational side I use a lot on this
channel when I talk to people
face-to-face about veganism and I do
have the experience many times that
converting people to begin some in real
life I use that positively but the main
thing I used in my engagement with my
debate with Amy Kay was the same method
but really flipped around and used
negatively so in that discussion that
she and her friends they really felt
that their strong suit to play was to
say that veganism was a failure as a
movement and then they were very
surprised when instead of debating that
with them I agreed with them but one
depressed forward further I said you're
right it's a failure we haven't achieved
any of our goals you know our goals are
enormous our ambitions to make the world
a place there
tremendous and we haven't accomplished
any of them and we've made almost zero
progress towards them we've made so
little you have these enormous goal to
abolish what everyone's have always
slaughterhouses have this ecological and
colonies on and but then I turn around
and I said what about you what are your
goals what movements have you been a
part of and they were really stunned by
that and it's what are you doing in the
next five years what have you done in
the last five years and I was asking
those questions sincerely but there was
also a sense in which what I was doing
was simply in a very mean and
emotionally devastating way drawing them
and drawing them out to a place where
they really got hurt they really got
emotionally beat up in this debate there
were a lot of witnesses to that I don't
know how many people were in the room on
discord but there were a bunch of people
and they were just blown away because
they never heard me really lay into
somebody that way they never heard me
where I'm just psychologically
devastating the person I'm talking to
weathers you know there's no mercy and
there's no kindness as that progressed I
mean I really took them apart in but it
really was specifically in especially
Amy Kay herself so that at this point
this question of how much do I want to
digress to talk about this Amy Kay I do
not think was born stupid if you even
just look at the way she puts a sentence
together
and her vocabulary I don't think she was
someone who was born with like a
biological limit on her intelligence
I think she's someone who's really
chosen to be stupid and she's someone
who was just good-looking enough just
cute enough as a woman that she could
basically get away with learning nothing
as she went through the motions of her
education and job and career path and so
on cool so let's sum things up I think
I'm pretty satisfied with how this one
problem with me a lot of people do I'm
[ __ ] adorable okay and people don't
like it I mean one of the points where I
drew her and she really got upset and
was breaking down about her own lack of
ambition to talk to them a lot about
ambition I didn't make the point of the
debate veganism when I took them on I
made the point of the bait the ambition
to make the world a better place
let's do
that and maybe veganism is just one
imperfect way that we're all trying to
make the world a better place but I said
no you know what you're right veganism
is a failure and I have a lot of
experience with failure when I went to
First Nations University and I was
trying to study Korean a jib way I want
to be involved with indigenous peoples
politics language education preventing
these languages who are insane and you
know what I failed and so far that whole
movement is failing and it's so sad to
me to think that those languages are
gonna go extinct Ottawa during my
lifetime the Ottawa language by the way
Ottawa is the name of a city in Canada
it's the name of a capital city in
Canada you've never met anyone in your
life who speaks the Ottawa language
you've never seen a street sign or a
newspaper of that language because the
language is going extinct in my lifetime
and that's really shameful and really
sad and it's gonna leave a cloud you
know it's gonna leave a whatever you
want to say at a black mark over the
kind of moral and historical record of
Canada it's it's yet another little step
on our slow-motion genocide but I said
yeah you know what I was involved in
these issues where you know the for me
personally it's a failure and nationally
or globally can look at as a failure
there were humanitarian projects in Laos
and Cambodia and Southeast Asia
generally and I saw these things rise
and fall and I had my little part in the
project whether it was a hands-on part
or more of a research unit role like you
know I was doing more of the thinking
and studying but I was part of projects
where you saw they were a failure the
project that tried to give medical care
to poor people and it failed but you
know what we had we had the aspiration
and the ambition to do something
positive what about you Amy what have
you got what have you done in the last
five years what are you doing in the
next five years right now and drawing
her in and then dealing with those
questions that way it was devastating to
her it was devastating to the guy who
did the most of the talking on her side
her male friend who was who was backing
her up and in the end that that debate
aside from showing I mean like people in
the comments I just said caught like
ISIL that was so Savage
I can't believe you you know you really
took these people apart a lot of people
were just blown away and I heard about
it from other people and there was just
this kind of word-of-mouth but though I
still had this debate with Amy kid was
just unbelievably vicious you know other
people who weren't they or asked me
about it and of course a lot of people
asked if there was a recording or a
video and there was nothing like that
there's a totally spontaneous you know
unplanned thing but what it Illustrated
to me above all else was the extent to
which Amy herself was jealous of what we
have going on in veganism and when I was
doing that humanitarian work I met and
talked to people who were just on
vacation in Laos Thailand Cambodia
whatever and they would sometimes meet
me and assume I was a tourist also or
soon as they meet me and assume I was in
the army like just the way I looked they
think I was there with the US military
or something but whatever sin did ask
and then they'd find out about the
humanitarian work I was doing the find
out about the research I was doing and
the languages I was doing whatever was
the minima and sometimes you know there
was there was a mix of admiration and
jealousy and soon as there was a really
kind of much more negative resentful
jealousy because the people were
thinking about their own lives they were
even thinking about what they were they
were thinking about what they were doing
on that vacation but they were maybe
thinking about the last five years their
lives in the next five years the lives
and where they're going and a lot of
people in in 21st century culture are
carrying around that burden of
resentment with themselves all the time
a lot of people are burdened with and to
some extent crippled by the awareness
that they were capable of something
better they were capable of something
more they ought to have had some
positive aspiration maybe not the cure
for cancer maybe not to feed starving
people in Laos maybe not you know
providing medical care to poor people in
Cambodia maybe not veganism or helping
animals on farms but that they should
have had something and what they have is
nothing an Amy Kay who she is and what
she is is a naturally cute attractive
good-looking woman who is now 30 years
old she's older than
you think she's probably missed her
window of opportunity to get married
have a baby and have a family
she's missed her window of opportunity
to get an education and have a career
she squandered those opportunities she
even I talked about her with this at
some length she missed her opportunity
to learn any language other than English
even though she had family members who
spoke other languages she missed her
opportunity to do humanitarian work in
India although she had family members
connected to that she has regrets about
passing all that up and she is a nobody
and she is on the internet trying to be
a somebody but she's missing that
crucial link that we as vegans have or
as vegan activists or vegans aspiring to
sign positive something we have which is
that we become somebody not through
being Fame [ __ ] or gossiping or
entertainment all this [ __ ] not
through song and dance right that you
become a somebody through your ambitions
right and in the pursuit of your
ambitions you transform who you are all
right we're all born ignorant we are all
born ignorant in case you guys think I
was just came out of the womb like you
know knowing any of this stuff I know or
even caring about this stuff I grew up
playing Sega Master System I grew up
playing Sega Genesis yo shut up
toejam and Earl okay I you know what
talk about you know meaningful
influences in my life I also grew up
with garbage
lowbrow Western culture I didn't have
like you know sir I mean I didn't have
any kind of special advantage in my
childhood but at some point you decide
to take life seriously at some point
like you know even something like my
engagement with Laos it has to start
with an awareness like wow there's this
historical tragedy I know nothing about
I just learn about it the United States
dropped more bombs on this country than
they dropped on Germany and Japan and
World War two there's this whole history
there's this culture is the ancient
Buddhism there's the modern
war communism poverty all this stuff is
going on hey can I make a positive
difference I can but I'm gonna have to
work hard as hell I literally went to
Toronto Metro reference library that's a
free library for you don't pay you don't
even pay a dollar to going on I went
into that library and I took every book
off that bookshelf for a long series of
languages Cambodian lotion Sinha leaves
I mean I hit the books even in deciding
which language I was going to learn
I studied the history the politics the
philosophy the language and you know
even sorry but I don't even want to make
it sound that academic when I was there
I wasn't a tourist even when I was just
talking to a farmer and learning about
what was going on in agriculture when
you talk to you know the people in that
sense when you talk to the common people
when you get down in the dirt and get
your hands and feet dirty and talk you
know just really learn what's going on
in one of these cultures or you know
where a lot of the information is kind
of secret and verbal and not written
down don't have freedom of the press
they don't have free speech on the radio
or newspapers if you want to know what's
going on even in your own neighborhood
or in the economy or something we're
really yeah and you know what that
changed me because I wanted to change I
didn't want to be at 31 years old the
same guy I was at 21 years old and won't
it be at 21 years old the same guy who
played you know video games at age 11
right getting older is not getting wiser
you're gonna change when you commit to
change and this girl Amy Kay she also
reminds me of a lot of moralizing you
find in ancient Buddhist philosophy in
the Canon you're not trying to talk
you're deliberately trying to be
dishonest you can think I'm dumb okay
she was born just clever enough to be
dumb you don't I mean she's just clever
enough to make excuses for her own
stupidity and stay stupid because she's
not learning the lessons from her
stupidity and she's just cute enough and
good-looking enough in charming I've
especially as a young
and this is gonna it's gonna be over now
you've run at a time with that [ __ ]
that she could smile and be evasive and
changed the subject and you know kind of
wink and giggle at people and get
through life without really getting
caught out in their mistakes with not
without really bearing the consequences
of you know her actions and her
stupidity you're just clever enough to
keep on being stupid
you're just cute enough to get away with
this I have no idea I mean what I don't
have no idea what kind of work history
she has but I mean she admitted to me
that she's basically never had a real
job in her life she's never had any real
career or education I don't know if she
used to fold t-shirts at a clothing shop
or work behind the counter at a designer
clothes warehouse I don't know if she's
had Joe jobs like that
but I mean again when she was really
breaking down with me in our debate she
admitted that she's never had any sense
of direction or purpose in life any
career she's never had any ambition even
to earn money or get an education or
have a decent job she's never had an
ambition to do anything but what she
responds to in veganism what it was
she's trying to lash out at and really
in a sense destroy is exactly seeing a
morally defined highly motivated
subculture of people trying to do some
positive where people who have exactly
what she lacks so look man you guys may
not know the song there's a Leonard
Cohen song
[Music]
the flowers that I see the children in
the morning know they will leave that
way last Sousa they're leaning out for
love they will lean that way forever
most human beings are defined by
terrible terrible needs by desire x'
they never really come to understand
themselves and a lot of people do not
grow up and I've said this before also
I don't think veganism is for children I
don't think veganism is I mean really
some people you see it here are just too
stupid to be vegan it's a tragedy but
it's true you know people are gonna grow
up when they choose to grow up and
veganism is one of these uncomfortable
sobering social messages that says to
people hey all those excuses you have me
life all of them all of them
grow up
[Music]
you can trust me boys touch your perfect
body is mine
[Music]
evolution